.TH "nfl" "1" "25 September 2023" "WO1 Clayton Williams" "WOBC Project"
.SH "NAME"
.PP 
nfl - calculate degrees of separation between any two players
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBnfl\fR [\fIFILE_OPTION\fR] <\fIFILE\fR> <\fIOPTION\fR> [\fIARG\fR]
.sh "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The WOBC project \fBnfl\fR is a command\-line utility tool for examining a TSV
file of NFL player statistics, and displaying statistics based on provided option.
.PP
Running \fBnfl\fR always requires one option, with additional option for specifying 
file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fBnfl\fR accepts one, and only one of the following options in long form.
.PP
\fB--player\fR [\fIPLAYER\fR]
.RS 4
Prints the id, name, position, college, and list of NFL teams of \fIPLAYER\fR. \fIPLAYER\fR
can be name or id and is case\-sensitive.
.br
.RE
\fB--search\fR [\fIPARAM\fR]
.RS 4
Prints a list of players who's name or college contains \fIPARAM\fR.
.br
.RE
\fB--stats\fR [\fIPLAYER\fR]
.RS 4
Prints a table of number of other players at each degree of separation from \fIPLAYER\fR,
up to 9 degrees. \fIPLAYER\fR can be name or id and is case\-sensitive.
.br
.RE
\fB--distance\fR [\fIPLAYER1\fR] [\fIPLAYER2\fR]
.RS 4
Finds and prints the shortest distance between \fIPLAYER1\fR and \fIPLAYER2\fR showing 
connections through teams and year.
.br
.RE
\fB--teams\fR
.RS 4
Print a list of unique teams.
.br
.RE
\fB--roster\fR [\fITEAM_NAME\fR] [\fIYEAR\fR]
.RS 4
Print a roster, player id, name, position, and college, of specific \fITEAM_NAME\fR,
\fIYEAR\fR combination.
.br
.RE
\fB--oracle\fR
.RS 4
Print the players with the lowest and highest average separation as determined from
\fB--stats\fR. Players with fewer than 100 connections at level 1 are ignored.
.SH "FILE_OPTION"
.PP
The following option can be used in short form in conjunction with any of the previous
option commands.
.PP
\fB-f\fR <\fIFILE\fR>
.RS 4
Program will read from \fIFILE\fR rather than default file included with the program.
.SH "ADDITIONAL OPTION"
.PP
The following option can be used in short form in conjunction with the \fB--distance\fR
option.
.PP
\fB-i\fR <\fIPLAYER\fR>
.RS 4
Used to remove players from consideration when invoking the \fB--distance\fR command.
\fB-i\fR can be used multiple times in each program call, but each option will take
one and only one \fIPLAYER\fB argument.
.br
\fbnfl -i "Derrick Henry" -i "Peyton Manning"
.SH "USAGE AND EXAMPLES"
.PP
\fBnfl --player "Randy Dixon"\fR
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
./}
.nf
DixoRa20	Randy Dixon	 	Pittsburgh
	1987 - Indianapolis Colts
	1988 - Indianapolis Colts
	1989 - Indianapolis Colts
	1990 - Indianapolis Colts
	1991 - Indianapolis Colts
	1992 - Indianapolis Colts
	1993 - Indianapolis Colts
	1994 - Indianapolis Colts
	1995 - Indianapolis Colts
.fi
.PP
\fBnfl --search "Cornell"\fR
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
./}
.nf
	TaglJo20	John Tagliaferri	Cornell
	CornBo20	Bo Cornell	Washington
	TaltKe20	Ken Talton	Cornell
	WaltBr00	Bryan Walters	Cornell
	PaynSe20	Seth Payne	Cornell
/...
.fi
.PP
\fBnfl --stats "Randy Dixon"\fR
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
./}
.nf
Network stats for Randy Dixon
0 -- 1 cohort
1 -- 273 cohorts
2 -- 8386 cohorts
3 -- 9581 cohorts
4 -- 2249 cohorts
5 -- 0 cohorts
6 -- 0 cohorts
7 -- 0 cohorts
8 -- 0 cohorts
9 -- 0 cohorts
Average separation 2.673694
.fi
.PP
\fBnfl --roster "Dallas Cowboys" 1970\fR
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
./}
.nf
	AddeHe00	Herb Adderley	LCB	Michigan St.
	AdkiMa00	Margene Adkins	 	Henderson JC
	AndrGe00	George Andrie	RDE	Marquette
	AsheBo20	Bob Asher	RT	Vanderbilt
/...
.fi
.PP
\fBnfl --teams
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
./}
.nf
Arizona Cardinals
Atlanta Falcons
Baltimore Colts
Baltimore Ravens
Boston Patriots
/...
.fi
.PP
\fBnfl --distance "Johnny Manziel" "Roger Staubach"\fR
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
./}
.nf
Roger Staubach played for Dallas Cowboys in 1974 with Too Tall Jones
Too Tall Jones played for Dallas Cowboys in 1989 with Troy Aikman
Troy Aikman played for Dallas Cowboys in 1998 with Flozell Adams
Flozell Adams played for Dallas Cowboys in 2006 with Miles Austin
Miles Austin played for Cleveland Browns in 2014 with Johnny Manziel
.fi
.PP
\fBnfl --oracle\fR
.br
.specify.if n\{\
.RS 4
.nf
And the winners are:
The center of the universe (since 1960) with a score of 2.289849 is Morten Andersen
The least connected NFL player with at least 100 connections of the NFL universe (since 1960) with a score of 4.207321 is Dewey Bohling
.fi
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
On success, \fBnfl\fR returns 0. On failure, \fBnfl\fR returns 1, sets \fIerrno\fR if appropriate,
and writes error messages to \fIstderr\fR.
.SH "LICENSE"
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
WO1 Clayton E. Williams
.PP
clayton.e.williams15.mil@army.mil
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
